

            virtinsttest - Virtual installation testing script
         Copyright (c) 2015 Pieter Hollants <pieter@hollants.com>
           Licensed under the GNU Public License (GPL) version 3


WHAT IS IT?

virtinsttest is a Python script that allows automated virtual testing
of automated OS installations.

The idea is that you throw your (unmodified) OS installation scripting
code (eg. AutoYast or, in the future, Kickstart code) plus a simple
virtinsttest-specific config file at it and it will do all the work
for you that you'd otherwise have to do manually:
- Creating virtual disk image files 
- Creating virtual USB sticks based on the contents of a directory
  (to simulate feeding the AutoYast/Kickstart code to the SUSE/RedHat
  installer in a no-network scenario)
- Defining a test VM instance
- Starting the VM and the OS installation
- Monitoring the installation for progress
- Running tests inside the installed system to determine
  installation success or failure (not implemented yet)

...effectively allowing you to use virtinsttest as part of a CI pipeline
to test changes to your OS installation scripting code automatically and
get rapid feedback. Provided that you do write that code yourself which,
admittedly, probably is a bit out of vogue with modern provisioning
methodologies such as Foreman, but then again, how do you install the
Foreman machine?

virtinsttest uses guestfstools and, through libvirt, qemu and KVM. It
uses a plugin system to implement support for the OSes to be installed
(eg. watching installation progress).


REQUIREMENTS

In its initial version, virtinsttest supports openSUSE 13.2 only (as
distribution to be installed and possibly also as host operating system).

virtinsttest in any case requires:
- libvirt (the libraries)
- the libvirt Python bindings
- virt-install
- guestfs-tools
- the libguestfs Python bindings

While libvirt allows connecting to remote libvirt instances, virtinsttest
probably does not really support this well because it does some additional
stuff such as building disk images. Meaning that you will probably want
to run virtinsttest on the virtualization host directly. Then you'd also
want:
- qemu-kvm (qemu with support for the kvm kernel module)
- libvirt-daemon (libvirtd)
- libvirt-daemon-qemu (libvirtd's qemu driver)


DOWNLOAD

virtinsttest is currently available in source code form only via

  https://github.com/pief/virtinsttest/


INSTALLATION

The supplied RPM spec files places virtinsttest in /usr/bin.
Documentation will be installed into /usr/share/doc/packages/virtinsttest.


TODO

- Document ToDos...
